Does everyone studying at IIT (BHU), Varanasi feel sad about living in an old city with very bad traffic, bad roads, no great cinema hall, no good place to hang out, and a lack of good looking girls?No.Surprise to you, almost nobody studying at IIT (BHU) Varanasi feels so. We are proud to study at the cultural capital of the country.Yes, the cleanliness, security, and traffic outside the campus are not up to the mark, but times are changing.Varanasi has a good enough taste in food. No big malls, but have 4 small malls which serve the purpose. Here for studying, aren’t we?The transport is relatively cheap, and modes of education–be it schooling, coaching, or college–are easily accessible. It has typical Delhi-UP-Bihar type climate.Not many places in India, would you find an IIT on the lands of a former rural colony and a holy temple, a university that has seen India rise to independence and whose foundation was laid by some golden figures, numerous ghats to lose yourselves, and more importantly, find yourselves.A student, in his college life, needs the perfect blend of friendship and solitude. You can’t challenge Banarasi log in friendship and socialising. For solitude, the ghats await you.Do students at the seven older IITs consider IIT (BHU) Varanasi an IIT?What are the problems at IIT (BHU) Varanasi?Is IIT BHU in Varanasi good?Who is 'Pondy Baba' at IIT (BHU) Varanasi?Is the tag of BHU doing any good to IIT BHU?To answer your question, which rather sounds like a complaint to me. If you happen to be from a metro, at first yes you will literally cry about every possible little thing of this city.But as you move forward you will like the things which this city has to offer you which are unique to itself. Cinema : Ask IIT Kgp guysGirls : Ask any IIT atleast you have some thing From MMV (I guess, though never really explored that side much )Traffic: I am from Delhi NCR, Traffic is pathetic there too and trust me it is bad almost in every city, may be a little bit too adverse in Varanasi.Hang Out: Other than IIT B and D I dont think any other have great places to hang out either. And trust me th place doesnt matter the company does. We have spent hours doing Vellapanti at LCAnd plus you are gonna live in a big city anyway once you are done here.Why don't you explore the Mysteries and uniqueness this city has to offer you.It has highest foreign tourism. also the second best city to get lost in after London :)) cheersThe 6 best cities to get lost inThat is the survey of done by lonely planet PS: I think this is something no metro of India can offer you.I passed out a while ago(>4 years) and to this day, I remember everything about the city like it was yesterday. I still hold a very vocal opinion about the city's culture, its heritage and "world's best sizzling brownie @Ming Garden" to anybody who grazes the topic.Was I always this attached to the place. No! Just out of school cleared JEE I was pumped up  and had already started what was I going to do in IITD(place I was from.) From that to going alone to a dirty, seemingly a  bit behind its time, city was a long leap. I hated it, I was homesick. I went back home 4 times in 2 months, my folks were worried. But every time I took the auto to the station I experienced the city differently. The fifth time was a while later, the city started growing on me. After four years, I felt part of the city and its maddening chaos. It was my city as well. Yes, the campus was beautiful and I do feel attached to it as mostly everyone else would do. But Varanasi is different, it holds something for everyone. It might be the food, the temples, the drinks or the "paan" or the ghats or just about anything under the sun. There is just an air of positivity in the place. I have been to the city a few times since then and it hurts to leave the city every time still. I know from the question you are new or just having a bad time. Just explore! Stand up and go out! The City will find you. Along the way you will end up making some friends for life. Not a bad deal Eh! I understand its no New York, London or even Mumbai but as it was rightly said in "Ranjhanna" - "Banares ki baat hi kuch aur hai"P.S. I might be a bit biased because I met my wife there.Tell you what ! Having passed out recently, what I feel now might not fit to this situation.I stay in Delhi now. Each time I am at the New Delhi Metro station or even in the near proximity, and it is 6 in the evening. And I realize, Shiv Ganga Express must be about to leave.This has happened thrice this month.And each time , I had almost boarded the train with no luggage , no ticket.Just so that I can feel the same air again. Just so that I can sit on assi and watch the river flow. Just so that I can live my Banaras yet again.But who was I kiding ! I had workload to bear. I was no more in IT-BHU.So to answer you , let alone "not sad" , it is a pleasure for every student studying at IIT-BHU to live in a city like Varanasi.. no.. BANARAS !It takes time to realize the importance of Banaras. In my first year, I was feeling the same way, but time has changed everything. At later point of time, you will realize that things which you are talking about doesn't matter much. Traffic: Its gonna be bad everywhere. Trust me, Bangalore traffic is much worse than Banaras traffic.Cinema Hall: PDR is good enough and I frankly believe that its the company that matters the most when you go to watch some movie. You won't get 30 friends in the same hall anywhere else. I remember in our times, whole branch used to go and man, that was fun, real fun.Hangout: Nothing can beat ghats. At any time. Night outs at ghats are among the best memories.Good Looking Girls: Well, you surely are a noob.What you need to do is stop complaining and see the positives. Go out more often, Make friends, Talk to strangers at ghats, Try to mix up with this place.The day you will start calling Varanasi as Banaras, you will feel the awesomeness ! -- City Lover PassoutLet me narrate a funny incident that took place while I was travelling to IIT-BHU for the very first time.We took an auto from my fathers company provided guest house to BHU. The auto driver was a fluent talker. He started describing the various buildings, temples and ghats that we encountered on the way. When we reached BHU he started talking about its heritage. Then suddenly he turned towards us and asked about the purpose of our visit. My father said that our son has secured a seat at IIT-BHU and we are here for the orientation. After hearing this the auto driver said:"Bahut accha hai babuji, Hamau bhi yahi se padhe hai. BSc kiya tha humne 1988 mein aur aaj dekhiye Auto chala rahe hai. Yahi Broacha Hostel mein rahte the aur khoob politics mein bhi bhaag liya tha"English version: "Very good sir. I have also studied here. I did my BSc and today I am an Auto driver. I stayed in Broacha Hostel and took part in internal politics too"No one spoke anything after that.As it turns out I have passed out of IIT-BHU 3 years ago and by profession I am not an auto driver.Jokes apart. I am sure most of the people might not like Varanasi at the first sight. When I reached varanasi there was stockpile of garbage just outside the railway station. We were not able to find any restaurant which was not being visited simultaneously by a swarm of flies. The roads are narrow and congested, during rains garbage and filth flows even into temples but as Tanmay pointed out there are lots of good things about Varanasi. Once you experience them you will overlook other small problems and fall in love with the city.I am counting my days to visit Varanasi again during the convocation on 10th July 2013.When i came here in Varanasi I hated it a hell lot but now after three long years the only fear is I have to leave one day. The water of river Ganga is running through my veins, how can i feel sad about this place?Ghats, the river ganga, Sankat Mochan. Kashi Vishvanath, Spirituality, reincarnation...No other IIT or City could bless me with this.Bad Traffic or more LivelinessWorse roads or the roads taken by many across the world.No cinema Hall or the whole Varanasi is a cinema hall.No place to Hang out: You can’t find out one when there are so many.Lack of good looking girls: Well that depends on your perception only.Very Old: Old is gold :).I was REBORN here and will remain Banarasi forever.I dont think everyone studying in IIT BHU would be sad about living in Banaras. But handful of those who think they are caught in the wrong city would feel sad , not because they are in Varanasi but because they are in IIT and in Varanasi.Common dude , get over the elitism. JEE is done.In your life ahead , you may  get to live in Manhattan or Melbourne or Mumbai but it is for sure you may not get to live in Banaras again . Yes , college students like to hang out at good places .But the best places to hang out are the ones where most interesting people gather.That you already have in IIT. So enjoy your time .As far as Banaras is concerned, a lot of people have already added very good points . Please watch this wonderful documentary by some professional photographers:Varanasi, India: "Beyond"I'll summarize my thoughts for the first few days and the last day at IIT(BHU) :First Few Days: 1) The city doesn't have any wide roads and is too congested.2) There are no great malls in the city.3) People here are too talkative.4) The hostel is too far from the entrance gate.5) The city in general is very filthy except for the BHU campus.6) Should I have given these factors some weight-age while picking this institute ? Did I make a mistake?Last Day:1) The fact that I'll be leaving the city soon seems unreal and very depressing.2) The view of the ghats lit up at night as the Ganges meanders is perpetually  floating in your head .3) You want to visit all your favorite eating spots one last time. Sure you'll be back here in the future but it won't be the same.4) A walk from the main gate to your hostel doesn't seem to be long at all.5) The congestion, the traffic, the filth don't matter. It's all a part of the place's identity. The place you've grown really fond of over the past four years.A2A by ShrutiMajority of students don't like Varanasi because it doesn't have a good mall, no place to hangout, no place for a night out and many other things which a metro city like Delhi and Bombay have.When you reach in your fourth year, you realize that going to Ghats, small streets of Varanasi, and those others typical Varanasi places is being repetitive and we need more places to visit.In first look, Varanasi would be like, “What the heck? So untidy and dirty place.”Especially for IIT(BHU) students, mess food is a big problem, and there is only one McDonalds(far), no Subway and KFC, only one Pizza Hut (very far) and so people usually curse BHU administration and us(IIT) being in BHU for this.They also curse the roads whose conditions are pathetic, they curse people chewing paan masala, gutkhas etc. everytime and then spitting them in almost any place they like and they also curse the people of here sometimes.BUT, after all this cursing, they (IIT people) adjust and make up their minds by telling themselves that “they are in an IIT” or some other kind of motivation.—Generally, in this whole world, people don't value the things they have and only value them when it's gone. So, we are not valuing the essence of Varanasi we are enjoying and that thing will be valued only after leaving this place permanently.I was a student of Banaras Hindu University (Social Sciences) and hence I found it a point to reply to this amazing question.Since you are a part of IIT(if you are), I presume that you are feeling rather inferior in being at a city which you deem to be ‘technologically challenged’. If you get out of this mindset of yours you’ll actually be able to see what beauty the city holds apart from your high end cinema halls or good looking girls ;)Study hard,learn something and hopefully you’ll create something innovative and great( we all expect that from IITians, sorry for the stereotyping) maybe not something related to good looking girls, but something for the city. Hopefully. Cheers.I graduated from IT BHU in 2003, and since then i have lived and worked in Bangalore, Hyderabad, New York and Zurich. But BHU was my happiest time, it may be due to friends, or i was younger then. But whenever it comes to conversations with my colleagues about college life everyone else becomes an audience :) , whether it is about coming at 5 AM from Assi Ghat to give end sem the same morning, or how Pondy Baba used to guide us before exams, or how holi used to be celebrated :)One thing i do regret is that i spent a lot of time studying and focussing on grades etc., while that is not a bad thing but 14 years down the line when i reflect back i feel like trading those A grades and even half of my current salary to spend some more time with my friends at VT or having few more rounds of Tea and Samosa at Limbdi Corner. My only suggestion is study well but don’t forget that these beautiful 4 years will never come back to you again. Enjoy your time while you are thereVaranasi, or Benaras, (also known as Kashi) is one of the oldest living cities in the world. Varanasi`s Prominence in Hindu mythology is virtually unrevealed. Mark Twain, the English author and literature, who was enthralled by the legend and sanctity of Benaras, once wrote : "Benaras is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend and looks twice as old as all of them put together" . According to the ‘Vamana Purana’, the Varuna and the Assi rivers originated from the body of the primordial Person at the beginning of time itself. The tract of land lying between them is believed to be ‘Varanasi’, the holiest of all pilgrimages.The word ‘Kashi’ originated from the word ‘Kas’ which means to shine. Steeped in tradition and mythological legacy, Kashi is the ‘original ground ‘ created by Shiva and Parvati, upon which they stood at the beginning of time. Varanasi is the microcosm of Hinduism, a city of traditional classical culture, glorified by myth and legend and sanctified by religion , it has always attracted a large number of pilgrims and worshippers from time immemorial. To be in Varanasi is an experience in itself…. an experience in self–discovery… an eternal oneness of the body and soul.To every visitor; Varanasi offers a breathtaking experience. The rays of the dawn shimmer -ing across the Ganges… the high-banks ; the temples and shrines along the banks bathed in a golden hue …soul stirring hymns and mantras alongwith the fragrance of incense filling the air…and the refreshing dip in the holy waters gently splashing at the Ghats. Varanasi – the land where experience and discovery reach the ultimate bliss.Varanasi is also renowned for its rich tapestry of music, arts, crafts and education. Some of the world renowned exponents India has produced in these fields were schooled in Varanasi’s cultural ethos. Luminaries apart, Varanasi abounds in the art of silk weaving, an exotic work of art which manifests itself in precious Banarasi Silk Sarees and Silk brocades which are cherished as collector’s items across the world today.You feel sad....who cares?But in my personal opinion best city in India is the spiritual capital of the world...my Varanasi.....It is a city in perpetual decay and full of callous people. More callous than anywhere else. The roads are always dug up, the drains are overflowing, the great river Ganga is now full of filth due to drains falling in the river, and nobody wants to do any work. Not in the first instance. You approach anybody there, the first answer will be NAHI (meaning No). Even an empty rickshaw will refuse first unless you shout.I had seen a very beautiful Benaras in my childhood, when most of you were not even born. There were cemented roads, very well built lanes and gullies, drains on the sides and footpaths. All the drains were washed everyday. All the roads were sprinkled with water in the summers. The gullies were swept clean every morning. The city was full of nice ponds called Kunds. Of course there were cows and bulls, ricksha and cycles, paan vendors and sweatshops everywhere. Small time sellers sold the best pakoras, samosas, and kachodis and jalebis. We used to get clean and pure water in our homes.First of all, the one who has posted this stupid question has never come out of his/her hostel room for sure...It has been over an year that i have graduated and still every damn photo or video concerned to banaras makes me sad...not because it is not clean, filthy, narrow lanes, buffaloes, bla bla bla...but because i dont stay at banaras anymore...and it's just not me...ask any sensible graduate of our insti....how proud they feel about being a part of IIT (BHU) and being called a "Banarasi"....Har har Mahadev!!!The first time I stepped into this city, I felt something amusing about this city. I was in an auto-rickshaw heading towards BHU from Cantt station, and our auto-rickshaw crashed onto a Bolero. Surprisingly none of the drivers said anything to one another. Out of curiosity, I asked the auto-wala, "bhaiya, kuch bole nahi aap, galti to bolero wale ki thi ki galat side se chala raha tha?" The reply was something was something that I took me time to digest, "bhaiya, aap naye ho kya banaras me?" Silence followed.And in due course of time, I understood why he said so. In my 3.5 years of experience in living in this holy city, I learnt how to live and yet prosper in an environment of chaos. You learn to live in a panic situation. I doubt if a non-banarasi can stay as calm as we can in panic situations. You gotta look at all four sides of the road on a one-way lane :pAs you spend your time here in Banaras, you start engaging yourself into this city's marvels. Frequent visits to Ghats and late night Chai-Sutta (not that I smoke) at Lanka, living in colossal hostels having huge lawns, kachodi-sabji, longlatta, rabdi, lassi... something each graduate misses wherever he/she is around the world. Given a holiday, I can guarantee you that each one of them yearns to visit this city to relive the chaos.  And not to forget the political extravaganza that one witnesses :p Kejriwal versus Modi. It is not everyday and everywhere that you see such shows but Varanasi. And just imagine now, what would Varanasi be in the next ten years with the Kyoto pact coming into action! Let me tell you this, and trust me, what I'm gonna say here is what you're gonna feel it when you're away from Varanasi:Jo maza banaras me, na paris me na faras or naahi vegas me!Well its just a mindset. Studying at Varanasi has its own advantage. First Varanasi is very cheap as compared to other metros, so you can have loads of fun with little money. Varanasi may not have many malls or pubs but ghats & roadside eateries here are uncomparableLastly, IIT-Varanasi is situated in BHU campus, its so green and pollution free. And, you get loads of good looking girls around. Ask any other IITian from any other city if they are able to see even 1% of it.It was not long ago that I had decided to step into Banaras. 5 years ago we all had expectations after completing a major part of life called schooling ... I did decide to join IT-BHU (not IIT then) , looking back id say that it would have been the wisest decision I made in my life unknowingly and which was also a by-product of my rank and other stuff ...If you are from a metro or any big city with a fast or glamorous life-style at your disposal then yes you would feel a bit dejected about what you see here , but for me hailing from a township it was quite the experience. I was loving the wonderful old architecture and greenery around , it had a different air about it, a different spirit.At first yes I did share some concerns about the city , but u see the city is just like any other city .. with its own share of problems and surprises , and surprised I was when it was the first time when I went to crowded streets of Gadaulia and visited the Ghats. No matter the crowd , the issues that you face .. sometimes arguing with rickshaw-waala or the auto-waala , making your way through the crowd and stuff, at the end of the day looking back ud notice everything that you had experienced would bring a smile some way or the other , ud feel the satisfaction of gettin something done however simple or trivial (mostly made by others interference or non-cooperation) , ud feel the energy around working as a catalyst to bolster your emotions be it aggressive or calming.What I feel about the city is that its alive by itself and it doesnt need ppl or gimmics to make it a happening place like other places or cities or metros need. Sit at the ghats and try to assimilate what the city is. At the ghats lemon tea and the company of a good friend (both optional) is all you need to experience the magic of the city. Observe the elements and ud understand where you are ... its not just any city its Banaras.If cribbing is all one can do being in this city then im sad to say uv yet to experience the awesomeness of the city itself and uv yet to grow up ,  and Id recommend you to try and get more friends , friends with a taste for variety, hang around with them in the places that ud never have been to before. You will see a different side of the city , a city which has lot to offer, a lot to teach.Some of the prime things I learnt from the city is the sense of bonding , a sense of friendship and comradery, a sense of equality and opportunity , better ways to manage myself and my time among a lotta other things. Try looking for places like "Filo cafe", "Apsara restaurant" .. and other joints hidden inside the city or rather the ghats .. ud see urself playing a game of hide and seek and you will like it (if ur not the always grumbling kind). Try visiting the ghats at late hours or even in the evenings , listen to the wind , do some introspection and you will re-find yourself.  I accept it will not come in a day or in a month .. give it some time and reflect .. ud see the change .. ul start to like the city little by little , its not a city that is modern but a city that is old and full of experience, full of answers.That’s too generalised a question!I personally feel for any institute, the above parameters do not matter after few initial days; because the best campuses in India barely have any good public infrastructure outside the premises; for instance IIT Kharagpur, IIT Kanpur, IIT Roorkee etc.Let me deal with the issues that make IIT BHU a unique place to study. BHU happens to be one of the best universities in India; its prowess extending from Humanities to Sciences. The Performing Arts faculty, the Fine Arts faculty, the Linguistics Departments, the Dharm Vigyan faculty, the Yoga Courses in Malviya Bhawan and the Science Faculty are indeed the best in their respective fields. So, for a student in IIT, who would surely want to extend his skillset, BHU provides the best possible amenities. It is in this context that studying in BHU is a blessing. I had just two years of stay in BHU, and I admit I did not utilize my time properly; however, for an individual who is motivated - BHU can make you a perfect individual.I have no regret being a part of BHU. I just hope the faculty in BHU becomes a little active - they should start visiting the library. They should read and spend less time in Sun :)Yeh benaras hai benaras,  yahan ki baat hi kuch aur hai.  From my opening statement you could get an idea about how I feel about this city. I am in love with benaras. The city has its own magic. Benaras never misses to mesmarise humans. Although it is not a metro where you will have pheonix like malls and Audi showrooms. But hey who need them when you are in benaras. You can spend more time walking from assi ghat to dashashwamendh ghat as compared to any mall. The magic is you can do it daily and at any time of day and still the experience will be as fascinating as it were the first time.In short I never regretted my life in IIT BHU.How is an MTech in Mining at IIT BHU Varanasi?Why is IIT-BHU the worst IIT?What should I pack for IIT BHU?Why is there no LGBT club at IIT (BHU) Varanasi?Is IIT BHU good in research?What are the best places to live in Varanasi as a student of BHU?What is the bad thing about IIT BHU?How can an IIT BHU guy get hooked up with another faculty girl at BHU?What are the best places to make out in IIT BHU or Varanasi in general?Why is IIT-BHU going down?Do students at the seven older IITs consider IIT (BHU) Varanasi an IIT?What are the problems at IIT (BHU) Varanasi?Is IIT BHU in Varanasi good?Who is 'Pondy Baba' at IIT (BHU) Varanasi?Is the tag of BHU doing any good to IIT BHU?How is an MTech in Mining at IIT BHU Varanasi?Why is IIT-BHU the worst IIT?What should I pack for IIT BHU?Why is there no LGBT club at IIT (BHU) Varanasi?Is IIT BHU good in research?Have you ever felt dissatisfied after joining IIT BHU?Have you ever felt dissatisfied after joining IIT BHU?Has IIT KGP lost its reputation?Has IIT Madras lost its charm after the JEE 2017?Seeing all these questions just piss me off, but sometimes it becomes important to answer them.And here is the answer to all the above three questions: A big NO.I respect the top 7 old IITs. They hold a special position. Top 5 even more. Getting a branch of ‘your choice’ in these is a big accomplishment. No doubt regarding this. But after these what about the rest IITs?Having written this, I will write exclusively about IIT BHU.IIT BHU is clearly one of the finest institutions of our country. If you are not getting a branch of ‘your choice’ in the above-mentioned IITs, do not hesitate to come here. It can certainly vouch for the 8th position in the overall ranking of IITs(though some prefer BHU to Guwhati) Yes, the source I am quoting is not NIRF, I don’t think I should even list the reason why! Ask any sensible person, and he/she will laugh at the NIRF ranking. NIRF is a good initiative, no doubt, but it is flawed. See any other ranking, IIT BHU certainly comes under the top 10 “Engineering Colleges Of India” boasting of a great alumni network, amazing placements and internships(it has one of the largest intakes for undergraduate courses after IIT KGP, as far as I know). A convivial environment with a beautiful campus of astronomical size, vibrant fests, fully blown clubs, separate departments for each course. What else can a student wish for?Now for the infrastructure:It is not very cushdy, but definitely not egregious. It’s quite liveable. The reason is quite obvious as it is a very old institute. But it is improving incessantly, and it is relentlessly spending on its infrastructure. You’ll not be denied of anything unless of course, it’s illogical. New hostels have been made, facilities of wifi with good speed is being provided, motor vehicles are allowed to be kept in the campus, the Institute has proximity towards coaching centres for UPSC, GATE, CAT. Labs are well maintained, professors and seniors both are helpful. There is no restriction to roam at night(for boys), 24*7 water supply, small city life with restaurants and movie hall along with the ghats.After all these, if you think you are still not satisfied, may the almighty help you in counselling. I don’t know what type of college will appease you!Interested folks can also refer to:Quora User's answer to What happened on your first day at IIT?Why did Hritwik Singhai join IIT BHU after getting such a decent rank?Can IIT-BHU surpass IIT-K and IIT-G by 2019-20?Can IIT (BHU) ever become at par with IIT-B, K, Kgp, D, and M?Why is IIT-BHU awesome?How's the life at IIT? Is it too stressful?Yes, it has almost been 1 year and I do regret joining this place.You see, what makes a college standout is the teachers, seniors, infrastructure and the overall environment.As far as teachers are concerned, I would say they are okayish. I am pretty sure that's the way in every other IIT as well.But it's the infrastructure and the seniors(not all but majority of them) here that make this place insufferable.If you are joining this place, I will forewarn you that beware of the seniors who will try to lure you with sweet words to work for them in the fests. They will try to deceive you by saying that grades don't matter and its the PORs that matter. But trust me when I say this, that NOTHING, absolutely NOTHING matters more than your grades. These very seniors, at the end of four years are themselves not able to make the cutoffs during placements due to their low CPI. So, if you are joining this year, you better be more careful ,because this year, shit is about to get real as the current Gen Sec of the Cultural Council is the biggest asshole that I encountered during the first year and he will leave no stone unturned to play the role of Pied Piper and entice you all.Coming to the infrastructure, I sometimes wonder on what basis did they convert this to an IIT. During JEE preparation, we all dream of the best in class facilities we would get in the IITs but the moment you make your way out of the Varanasi cantt. you realise that you are doomed for the next 4/5 years.Also, majority of the students here only dream of getting bhand(ganja,charas,etc.). Hardly anyone cares about studies and every other weekend there is some bullshit event like FMC weekend, etc.Also DONT EVER join the IMC or WMC here( the Indian/Western music club). The entire year they only made the freshers carry equipment from one place to the other, just like slaves and nothing else. ( No prizes for guessing that this year's cultural council gen. sec. was last year's secy of IMC)Then there are the nukkad-walas... In my experience, the majority of the students who failed in first year subjects were the nukkad-walas. Nakhre toh aise karenge jaise agle Oscar unhe hi Milne wala hai.And yes, one more thing, within a month of joining there would be a bullshit event called MUN. Just stay away from that.In conclusion, I would say that be careful of the people you come across here in the college, sweeter the words more the chance that they are going to drag you down, and yes, I do regret coming here.Yes, but only the time I saw the infrastructure here and that time was two years later. Now the infrastructure has improved a lot. It is yet not the best infrastructure but the work is going on to make it one.All other things are good even when I got in here and improving for more better.Why is IIT-BHU the worst IIT?Why is IIT-BHU going down?What should I pack for IIT BHU?How did you feel after visiting IIT BHU after so many years?Was IIT BHU better off when it was not an IIT but a part of BHU?What do BHU girls feel about IIT BHU boys?Can I join IIT after ITI?Should I join IIT-BHU or BITS-Pilani for CSE?How is the atmosphere of IIT BHU?What is wrong with IIT BHU?Why did Hritwik Singhai join IIT BHU after getting such a decent rank?Can IIT-BHU surpass IIT-K and IIT-G by 2019-20?Can IIT (BHU) ever become at par with IIT-B, K, Kgp, D, and M?Why is IIT-BHU awesome?How's the life at IIT? Is it too stressful?Why is IIT-BHU the worst IIT?Why is IIT-BHU going down?What should I pack for IIT BHU?How did you feel after visiting IIT BHU after so many years?Was IIT BHU better off when it was not an IIT but a part of BHU?Which one should I choose: IIT BHU (metallurgy) or NIT Trichy (mechanical)?Congratulations on clearing the JEE Advanced!First of all, this is a difficult question to answer and one that only you can, since it concerns your life and your future. Do not ask someone else to make that decision for you. You will end up blaming them, if, God forbid, something goes wrong at some point or the other. What can be done, is that the pros and cons of the two paths can be listed out to you. IIT BHU Metallurgy is a good branch, and provides you decent oppotunities for the future, and despite what some people might say, gives you the IIT tag advantage. But entering here solely on the hopes of being able to acquire a Branch Change is not very smart. There will be hundreds of students trying for the same, and as others have mentioned, this is a very uncertain path. However, IIT BHU Mechanical is a very prestigious one, and if you can work hard enough to secure a branch change, you will be in a very good position.NIT Trichy also has a good reputation, and since it provides you your preferred branch right away, the decision is a tricky one. If Mech is where your passion lies you can have a very bright future even without the IIT tag, provided you work hard enough.Then again, make your choice wisely, and consider how much of a hard worker you can be. Good Luck!Which one will be the best choice, IIT Bombay metallurgy or IIT Guwhati mechanical?Which is the best choice, IIT Bombay for​ metallurgy, IIT Hyderabad for mechanical, or NIT Trichy for mechanical?Which should I choose: IIT BHU for metallurgy or NIT TRICHY for mechanical?What should I choose: IIT Roorkee metallurgy or NIT Warangal/Trichy CSE?Should I choose JU computer or IIT BHU Mechanical?IIT-BHU Metallurgy If u go to IIT-BHU metallurgy and get a decent pointer, then u will be eligible to sit in all those open to all companies like ZS, Wipro etc. that provide good package and profiles. If u are interested in a PSU job then all the major steel PSU's, Tata Steel, And almost all automobile companies will be open.Added to that you will have the IIT brand image that you will carry thru out your life. This will help u in getting into B schools easilyYou get easy pointers in Meta dept. (compared to other branches like Mech) in IIT-BHU. Again this will help in getting into b skul and any other college.You have some considerable number of girls in Meta dept. You will have maximum 2 in mechanical. ;)NIT-TIRCHYTo be honest I do not know much about this. But from some of my friends and colleagues I learnt that this is also a great college. The only difference will be the IIT brand image. Also the number of open to all companies will be little more in IIT. I WOULD ADVICE U TO JOIN IIT BHU. ALL THE BEST.NIT Trichy is the sure better option not because it is a better college or not. But because Branch should be preferred. Today all elite books and courses are available freely on the internet(NPTEL). Infact on the other hand despite not being in mechanical engg. nobody stops me from studying the centuries of books freely available in the library. I would suggest you to see the course structure of mechanical and go through some PDFs on the web. Just because I have seen few students saying later that branch did not have what they expected.Congratulations. You have two very good options in your hands. I would say NIT Trichy is a better choice given the facts that you have your branch guaranteed and also that it is a wonderful school. As far as IIT BHU is concerned, yes you might want to have the tag. But I feel a branch change might be difficult and this route involves a lot of uncertainty. My vote would therefore go to NIT Trichy.Good luck!Should I choose CSE NIT Trichy or IIT KGP civil?Which one is better IIT Bombay metallurgy or ISM mechanical?Which should I choose: Amrita School of Engineering - Mechanical or NIT Trichy - Material Science and Metallurgy?What should I choose? Metallurgy at IIT KGP/Bombay/Madras or Electrical/Mechanical in new IIT's?What should I choose, NIT Trichy CSE or IIT BHU for metallurgy?Which should I choose, IIT BHU for metallurgy or NIT Trichy for chemical?Which should I choose - mechanical engineering at the IIT in Dhanbad, or CS at the NIT in Trichy?Which is better, CS at NIT Trichy or mechanical engineering at IIT BHU?What should I choose between IIT BHU chemical and NIT Bhopal CSE?Which one should I choose: IIT KGP ECE or IIT BHU CSE?Which one will be the best choice, IIT Bombay metallurgy or IIT Guwhati mechanical?Which is the best choice, IIT Bombay for​ metallurgy, IIT Hyderabad for mechanical, or NIT Trichy for mechanical?Which should I choose: IIT BHU for metallurgy or NIT TRICHY for mechanical?What should I choose: IIT Roorkee metallurgy or NIT Warangal/Trichy CSE?Should I choose JU computer or IIT BHU Mechanical?Should I choose CSE NIT Trichy or IIT KGP civil?Which one is better IIT Bombay metallurgy or ISM mechanical?Which should I choose: Amrita School of Engineering - Mechanical or NIT Trichy - Material Science and Metallurgy?What should I choose? Metallurgy at IIT KGP/Bombay/Madras or Electrical/Mechanical in new IIT's?What should I choose, NIT Trichy CSE or IIT BHU for metallurgy?Why is IIT-BHU going down?This one of the those matters which should be discussed only after considering all the factors. I will give an unbiased point of view.You might have heard that professors suck in almost each and every IIT in teaching. The same is the condition over here. However there are some good professors. The recruitment strategy now is completely different from that of previous IT BHU. So the campus is now getting filled with experienced and energetic professors.The main problem is infrastructure. You have got everything here from labs to playgrounds but the buildings are very old. This is one thing which degrades in ranking. My funda is simple - “Education has got nothing to do with the buildings as long as you have the perfect equipment to study.”. Another factor which degrades the ranking is the sex ratio. I seriously don’t understand whom to blame for this. What’s the connection between sex ratio and standard of education??But these things didn’t effect the placement scenario. The placements here are quite good and at par with old IITs. Last year it stood in 1st position in Graduation Outcome and this year it fell a bit and this might be the reason you want to know. Let me clarify, in the Graduation Outcome various parameters like placements, publications, research papers etc are counted. The data is not provided to the the Government. Here comes the main twist. IIT BHU, IIT Varanasi, IIT (BHU) Varanasi all mean the same but government collected data doesn’t cover all and as a result the rank fell down. However the director of the institute has already appealed to the MHRD and work is in progress.You mentioned that many are speaking of IIT BHU as low. I don’t think these people are IITians. If you ask any senior of any branch of any IIT, I am sure that no one will talk as low. In fact many people suggest this campus.IIT BHU is going up day by day. I am sure it would be in top list in the upcoming years.Happy reading!Why is IIT-BHU the worst IIT?Should I choose civil/chemical in IIT Bombay and IIT Madras or go for electrical at IIT BHU?How does IIT Roorkee compare with IIT BHU?Is IIT-BHU better than IIT Indore?Who are the best professors at IIT BHU?You are wrong that IIT(BHU) is going down.If you can see the OR-CR of IIT(BHU) particularly CSE,Electronics and Electrical you would find that many top rankers prefer this institute.I think it is wrong to question on one of the best technical institutes who had produced the best engineers of our country.It is true that we lack in some of facilities but on that problems too our officials are working upon.You might find a great change in this institute after this vacation.For your kind knowledge this institute is continuosly producing crorepatis which is the dream of every middle class family.So don’t go by others’ words and I would think that you might join our institute.Welcome FOLKS.No, IIT BHU is not going down. It is only going up in terms of education, placements, researches, projects, social life and everything else. Life here at IIT BHU is same as that in any other IIT.Students who have passed out and would be passing out from IIT BHU, all have a great life except few exceptions.Don’t add to the situation by setting negative propaganda in motion. The situation is not all that bad as the propaganda indicates.IIT BHU CSE or IIT Guwahati CSE, Which one should I go for?Should we go for IIT BHU mining?Where do mechanical engineers from IIT BHU mostly end up 5 years down the line?Is the Director of IIT (BHU), Dr. Rajeev Sangal going to be the new acting VC of BHU?How should I go to BHU?What should I pack for IIT BHU?Why is IIT-BHU awesome?What is wrong with IIT BHU?How are classrooms of IIT BHU?How is the atmosphere of IIT BHU?Why is IIT-BHU the worst IIT?Should I choose civil/chemical in IIT Bombay and IIT Madras or go for electrical at IIT BHU?How does IIT Roorkee compare with IIT BHU?Is IIT-BHU better than IIT Indore?Who are the best professors at IIT BHU?IIT BHU CSE or IIT Guwahati CSE, Which one should I go for?Should we go for IIT BHU mining?Where do mechanical engineers from IIT BHU mostly end up 5 years down the line?Is the Director of IIT (BHU), Dr. Rajeev Sangal going to be the new acting VC of BHU?How should I go to BHU?Which would be the best option: mining in ISM/IIT BHU or electrical/CS in GUD NIT?Chosing between ISM dhanbad mining and IITBHU mining is very easy ISM(as now it is going to be IIT so dont worry about the tag) is a better optionNow the question is between ISM mining engineering and electrical or CS of good nitBetween electrical and cs is the better option from the good nit since both are from nit no confusement between nit iitNow lets talk about the IIT tag with mining or cse from good nitIf you chose mining you get iit tag if you chose nit you get good branchNow its totally depend on your area of interest and your willWill you prefer branch or tagI am an ismite pursuing btech in mining and Mining here is nice if you maintain good skills and gpa you are going to be placed …you might not be placed at high package but placement % is quite goodIf you go for nit cse your branch will be a respectfull one as many people look down mining (although it is completely wrong it is also a brach of engineering and have respect between educated people)I personally moved on for iit tag as i knew that ism will be iit and i chosed ism miningNow its upon you what to choseAll the bestP.S. also think of your interest…will you prefer branch or college…ism is better than NITs but ..cse or mining is upon uWhich would be best: Electrical at ISM Dhanbad or IIT Jodhpur or a CS at MNIT?What should I prefer among the IIT BHU mining or the IIT Guwahati biotechnology or the ISM  Dhanbad mining?Should we go for IIT BHU mining?Which would be best among Mining in IIT BHU/ ISM, Evionics at IIST and ECE in DTU?How is life after studying mining at IIT BHU?Which is better, IIT BHU mining or ISM mining?What is the difference between an electrical engineer from ISM Dhanbad, and a mining engineer from IIT Kharagpur?Between Electrical at NIT Surat, Mining at IIT(ISM), and CSE at RVCE, which would be the best choice?Which one is better: IIT BHU (civil) or ISM Dhanbad (electrical)?Which is best: CS at NIT Durgapur, ceramic/mining at IT BHU, or mining at ISM Dhanbad?I want to prepare for the IAS. Which option is better: IIT BHU mining or NIT Trichy CSE?HOW is the placement of IIT BHU (banaras) mining branch?Which option has better placements: the CS branch at ISM Dhanbad or the mechanical branch at IIT Guwahati or BHU?Which is better, electrical (power) in the IITD or CS in the IIT BHU?What is the scope for mining engineering at the IIT? Which IIT is best for mining?Which would be best: Electrical at ISM Dhanbad or IIT Jodhpur or a CS at MNIT?What should I prefer among the IIT BHU mining or the IIT Guwahati biotechnology or the ISM  Dhanbad mining?Should we go for IIT BHU mining?Which would be best among Mining in IIT BHU/ ISM, Evionics at IIST and ECE in DTU?How is life after studying mining at IIT BHU?Which is better, IIT BHU mining or ISM mining?What is the difference between an electrical engineer from ISM Dhanbad, and a mining engineer from IIT Kharagpur?Between Electrical at NIT Surat, Mining at IIT(ISM), and CSE at RVCE, which would be the best choice?Which one is better: IIT BHU (civil) or ISM Dhanbad (electrical)?Which is best: CS at NIT Durgapur, ceramic/mining at IT BHU, or mining at ISM Dhanbad?